Goal_Mine
=========

Hackbright Final Project

During my 7 years as a Special Education teacher, I spent a lot of time creating and using manual data collection sheets to track and support the goals that comprised each student's Individualized Education Plan (IEP). My paraprofessionals and I tracked data in physical binders (one for each student), and then set aside time each week to compile the data into Excel spreadsheets. It was cumbersome and time consuming, and it took very little time for me to choose to tackle this problem in my final Hackbright project.  

Goal Mine is a data collection and report generator for Special Education teachers, built in Python with a Flask framework.  It allows teachers to add students to their class and create custom data collection pages to track each students individual goals. The custom forms are created using macro functions in Jinja, Flask's templating language.

 A teacher can take data using a variety of methods such as tallying (tracking how many times a behavior is observed), true/false (tracking whether a behavior did or did not occur), range (a likert scale of 1-6), narrative (to describe an incident or instance), and stopwatch (to track goals related to time frames). All data is stored in a SQL database for easy querying. 

Reports are generated by date range and include number of instances in given date range, frequency of given inputs, and percentages and averages of integer inputs. Teachers can also document important events that may impact student progress as a "marker", which will be displayed with the report data if it falls within the date range. 

Technologies used: Python, Flask, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Jinja, SQLAlchemy.

Next steps: Integrating D3 or Google Charts and Graphs API to visually represent data, increase security with Flask Security, add additional permissions for multiple users, incorporate WTForms for more thorough validation, and make Goal Mine available for open source usage. 
